The error message is shown by the grub command so next thing i did was try to start linux kernel manually . The easiest way to do this is press c .Then this would start grub command shell through which operating system can be manully booted.
BIOS is first things the system executes upon recieving power. Once bios is started ,it'll perform some basic system checks and then load and execute the bootloader. There are many bootloaders out there, but linux system tends to use particular one called grub. Grub a bootloaders taks is to load the pieces into memory that are nessary to start operating system.In the case of linux, the two important piece which grubs(bootloader) needs to load to memory is initrd and vmlinux process. What these mean are initrd is program that is essentail to call other process to run necessary to operate OS. Initrd consists of kernel and essentail program. In , these case the parent process or program is initrd and it call child process to run operating system.Initrd is initial RAM Disk for linux operating system.What does it mean is that initrd contains kernel and essential program. Grub will load these program into memory and execute it and it will start up the full kernel contained in vmlinux.
Once the full kernel is loaded the initrd will unload itshelf from memory.
In our case ,grub (bootloader) tries to load the initrd file into memory. The problem is with RAID controller(is piece of hardware or software responsible to manage HDD or SDD) and presents them to the computer as logical unit)  makes hard drive as single unit i.e whole drive as one partitions. This is quite large and initrd file could reside anywhere. It turns out that grub couldn't address the location of initrd file and therefore couldn't load it. 

At some point, most liikely during ubuntu update,initrd file was modified and endup in location where grub can't reach.
The solution to this problem is to keep the bootfiles(initrd ,vmlinux, and bootloader grub) to small partition which resides at the start of hard drive. When we install linux system ,we really should make a dedicated 256MB partition for holding boot files, despite the fact that most linux installer don't require you to do this.
